README.md, before:

# Vite Github Pages Deploy

<!-- ![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer/total?style=for-the-badge) -->

Deploy your [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) application to Github Pages, at a glance. 
- No shenanigans such as committing the dist folder and pushing to a branch. 
- Clean deploy to Github Pages by utilizing actions and artifacts.
- Customizable with optional build path

```
- name: Vite Github Pages Deployer
  uses: skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer@v1.1.0
```

Don't forget to release environment regarding the deploy (see [outputs](#outputs) for details):
```
# Name could be whatever you wish. It'll be visible publicly under the environments tab.
environment:
  name: demo
  url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.page_url }}
```

## Demo

Wanna see it in action? Sure thing, head on to this vue project to see it live: https://github.com/skywarth/country-routing-algorithm-demo-vue


## Input Parameters

### `public_base_path` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: '/(your-repo-name)'`

[Public base path](https://vitejs.dev/guide/build.html#public-base-path) string for Vite, this affects the routing, history and asset links. Make sure to provide appropriately since Github Pages stores your app in a directory under a subdomain. If you plan on deploying to alternative platform such as Vercel, you should simply provide `/`. 

Under normal circumstances, you don't need to provide/override this parameter, action will set it to your repo name appropriately.

### `build_path`(optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: './dist'`

Which folder do you want your Github Page to use as root directory, after the build process. Simply it is your build output directory such as `./dist`. If your `vite` config exports to a folder other than `./dist`, then you should pass it as parameter.

### `artifact_name` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'github-pages'`

Desired name for the exposed artifact. This name is visible in job and used as the artifacts name.


### `package_manager` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'npm'`
`Possible values: 'npm'|'yarn'`

Indicate the package manager of preferrence. It'll be used for installing dependencies and building the `dist`. For example if you prefer/use `yarn` as your package manager for the project, then you may pass `package_manager: 'yarn'` as input which then will be used as `yarn install` and `yarn build`.

### `debug_mode` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'false'`
`Possible values: 'true'|'false'`

Controls the debug mode, string, `'true'` is for on. When turned on, it'll output certain information on certain steps. Mainly used for development, but use it as you please to inspect your env and variables.

<a name="outputs"></a>
## Outputs


### `github_pages_url`
`Type: string`
`Example value: 'https://skywarth.github.io/country-routing-algorithm-demo-vue/'`

This output value shall be used to acquire the github pages url following the deployment. It can be accessed like so: `${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}` (deploy_to_pages is the id of the step that you run Vite Github Pages Deployer).

It is expected to be used as a way to publish environment during the job, like so:
```
environment:
      name: demo
      url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}
```

See [example workflow](#example-workflow) to grasp how to utilize this output




<a name="example-workflow"></a>
## Example workflow 
```
name: Vite Github Pages Deploy

on:
  # Runs on pushes targeting the default branch
  push:
    branches: ["master"]
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:

# Sets permissions of the GITHUB_TOKEN to allow deployment to GitHub Pages
permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write

# Allow only one concurrent deployment, skipping runs queued between the run in-progress and latest queued.
# However, do NOT cancel in-progress runs as we want to allow these production deployments to complete.
concurrency:
  group: "pages"
  cancel-in-progress: false

jobs:
  # Build job
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: demo
      url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Vite Github Pages Deployer
        uses: skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer@master
        id: deploy_to_pages

```

## TODOs

- [ ] Move bash scripts to a separate file for each section: build.sh, install.sh etc...
  - [ ] Would it be possible to import it like a class ? Research
  - [ ] Passing some parameters to it perhaps
- [X] Output the deploy url for environment, see issue #2


<details><summary>Notes to self</summary>

- `${{github.action_path}}`: Gives you the dir for this action itself.

- When you import a sh file in the bash shell, it is only accessible during that step only. This is due to the fact that each step is a shell on its own. 


</details>

Commit message:

add note about accessing input vars

README.md, after:

# Vite Github Pages Deploy

<!-- ![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer/total?style=for-the-badge) -->

Deploy your [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) application to Github Pages, at a glance. 
- No shenanigans such as committing the dist folder and pushing to a branch. 
- Clean deploy to Github Pages by utilizing actions and artifacts.
- Customizable with optional build path

```
- name: Vite Github Pages Deployer
  uses: skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer@v1.1.0
```

Don't forget to release environment regarding the deploy (see [outputs](#outputs) for details):
```
# Name could be whatever you wish. It'll be visible publicly under the environments tab.
environment:
  name: demo
  url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.page_url }}
```

## Demo

Wanna see it in action? Sure thing, head on to this vue project to see it live: https://github.com/skywarth/country-routing-algorithm-demo-vue


## Input Parameters

### `public_base_path` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: '/(your-repo-name)'`

[Public base path](https://vitejs.dev/guide/build.html#public-base-path) string for Vite, this affects the routing, history and asset links. Make sure to provide appropriately since Github Pages stores your app in a directory under a subdomain. If you plan on deploying to alternative platform such as Vercel, you should simply provide `/`. 

Under normal circumstances, you don't need to provide/override this parameter, action will set it to your repo name appropriately.

### `build_path`(optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: './dist'`

Which folder do you want your Github Page to use as root directory, after the build process. Simply it is your build output directory such as `./dist`. If your `vite` config exports to a folder other than `./dist`, then you should pass it as parameter.

### `artifact_name` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'github-pages'`

Desired name for the exposed artifact. This name is visible in job and used as the artifacts name.


### `package_manager` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'npm'`
`Possible values: 'npm'|'yarn'`

Indicate the package manager of preferrence. It'll be used for installing dependencies and building the `dist`. For example if you prefer/use `yarn` as your package manager for the project, then you may pass `package_manager: 'yarn'` as input which then will be used as `yarn install` and `yarn build`.

### `debug_mode` (optional)
`Type: string`
`Default: 'false'`
`Possible values: 'true'|'false'`

Controls the debug mode, string, `'true'` is for on. When turned on, it'll output certain information on certain steps. Mainly used for development, but use it as you please to inspect your env and variables.

<a name="outputs"></a>
## Outputs


### `github_pages_url`
`Type: string`
`Example value: 'https://skywarth.github.io/country-routing-algorithm-demo-vue/'`

This output value shall be used to acquire the github pages url following the deployment. It can be accessed like so: `${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}` (deploy_to_pages is the id of the step that you run Vite Github Pages Deployer).

It is expected to be used as a way to publish environment during the job, like so:
```
environment:
      name: demo
      url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}
```

See [example workflow](#example-workflow) to grasp how to utilize this output




<a name="example-workflow"></a>
## Example workflow 
```
name: Vite Github Pages Deploy

on:
  # Runs on pushes targeting the default branch
  push:
    branches: ["master"]
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:

# Sets permissions of the GITHUB_TOKEN to allow deployment to GitHub Pages
permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write

# Allow only one concurrent deployment, skipping runs queued between the run in-progress and latest queued.
# However, do NOT cancel in-progress runs as we want to allow these production deployments to complete.
concurrency:
  group: "pages"
  cancel-in-progress: false

jobs:
  # Build job
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: demo
      url: ${{ steps.deploy_to_pages.outputs.github_pages_url }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Vite Github Pages Deployer
        uses: skywarth/vite-github-pages-deployer@master
        id: deploy_to_pages

```

## TODOs

- [ ] Move bash scripts to a separate file for each section: build.sh, install.sh etc...
  - [ ] Would it be possible to import it like a class ? Research
  - [ ] Passing some parameters to it perhaps
- [X] Output the deploy url for environment, see issue #2


<details><summary>Notes to self</summary>

- `${{github.action_path}}`: Gives you the dir for this action itself.

- When you import a sh file in the bash shell, it is only accessible during that step only. This is due to the fact that each step is a shell on its own. 

- Inside separate `sh` files, you can access input variables of the action by their respective uppercase name. For example:
  - Input definition: 
    ```
    inputs: 
        package_manager:
        description: "Your preference of package manager: 'npm' and 'yarn' are possible values."
        required: false
        default: 'npm'
    ```
  - Accessing this input **inside the action**: `${{ inputs.package_manager }}`
  - Accessing this input **inside a `sh` file: `$PACKAGE_MANAGER`

</details>
